# JRC CbM for data analysis

## CbM frontend for analysis  

This page of the [JRC Checks by Monitoring (CbM) DOCUMENTATION](dias4cbm_intro.md) lists the frontend functionalities available to analysts, organized per tasks with the links to the documentation. These tools are designed to explore and analyse Sentinel data and to develop new methods to detect the agricultural events that can confirm/reject the practices declared by farmers on specific parcels in the context of a common agricultural policy (CAP) scheme. An introduction to the JRC CbM system is provided in the [OVERVIEW OF THE SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE PAGES](dias4cbm_architecture.md), based on a [Data and Information Access Systems (DIAS)](https://www.copernicus.eu/en/access-data/dias) cloud infrastructure. The frontend for analysts is based on the data generated by the backend and documented in the [BACKEND PAGES](dias4cbm_setup.md), and contributes to the tools and data available to final user, documented in the [DATA USE PAGES](dias4cbm_use.md).

## TASKS

#### RESTful API functionalities  
1. [RESTful API: ACCESS TIME SERIES](api_ts.md)  
2. [RESTful API: ACCESS IMAGE CHIPS](api_imgs.md)  
3. [RESTful API: SUPPORT TO DATA ANALYTICS](api_analytics.md)  
4. [RESTful API: USE OF POST FOR ADVANCED SELECTIONS](api_post.md)  

#### CbM Python package  
5. [Python CbM: OVERVIEW OF THE PACKAGE](cbm_overview.md)  
6. [Python CbM: INSTALLATION OF THE PACKAGE](cbm_install.md)  
7. [Python CbM: CONFIGURATION OF THE PACKAGE](cbm_config.md)  
8. [Python CbM: TRANSFERT OF DIAS CATAOG METADATA](cbm_card.md)  
9. [Python CbM: EXTRACTION OF STATISTICS](cbm_ext.md)  
10. [Python CbM: ASSESSMENT OF FOI HETEROGENEITY AND CARDINALITY](cbm_foi.md)  
11. [Python CbM: GET TIME SERIES, CHIPS AND BACKGROUND IMAGES](cbm_get.md)  

#### Complex workflows  
12. [APPLICATION: CALENDAR VIEW](uc_calendar.md)  
13. [APPLICATION: FOI ASSESSMENT](uc_foi.md)  
14. [APPLICATION: MACHINE LEARNING](uc_ml.md)  

## TASKS description

### RESTful API
JRC RESTful (see  the [introduction to JRC CbM architecture](dias4cbm_architecture.md) for more info) service requests have predefined logical query names that need to be configured with a set parameters. The response is a JSON formatted dictionary with the data requested by the user, extracted from the [JRC CbM database](setup_database.md) or from the Sentinel images stored in the DIAS object storage. In the documentation pages you find the available queries with use examples.  

In the [Time series documentation page](api_ts.md), you can see an example of the use of the *parcelByLocation* command to find a parcel ID for a given geographical location, *parcelTimeSeries* to get the signature time series for a parcel ID, and *parcelPeers* to retrieve parcels with the same crop type as the reference parcel within a certain distance. The documentation shows how to integrate these RESTful queries in a Python script to generate products such as graphs.  

In the [Image chips documentation page](api_imgs.md), we describe the use of the *chipByLocation* command to generate a series of extracted Sentinel-2 LEVEL2A segments of 128x128 pixels as a composite of 3 bands, *backgroundByLocation* to extract a high resolution overview of the parcel situation based on Google and Bing (or Virtual Earth) background image sets (does not depend on DIAS S3 store), *rawChipByLocation* to generate a series of extracted Sentinel-2 LEVEL2A segments of 128x128 (10m resolution bands) or 64x64 (20 m) pixels as list of full resolution GeoTIFFs. A more structured example shows how to integrate these RESTful services with some more advanced processing concepts that help build up to more complex logic in the next steps.  

In the [Data analytics documentation page](api_analytics.md), we work out a case study for CbM using the RESTful services. For a limited area of interest, we illustrate how to select all parcel IDs, then for each of them how to check the extracted signature statistics. Given specific criteria, we show how to sort on expected heterogeneity of the parcels to check if it is meaningful with respect to the crop stage. For the top 10 heterogeneous parcels, we explain how to extract chips for further testing.  
This documentation page is still **under development**.

In the [POST documentation page](api_post.md), we show how to use [POST methods](https://restfulapi.net/http-methods) with RESTful services, instead of GET methods, to perform tailored made selections. Using POST has the additional advantage that it is much easier to provide request parameters as more complex structures, e.g. including lists. In the documentation we present to script that are based on POST methods.  
In the example based on *rawChipsBatch*, you can see how to extract a set of image chips. In this case the parameters are lists of detailed references to individual chip selections that you want to collect from the server and that are then extracted on parallel Virtual Machines on the server. The script screens for cloud-free bands of interest. It generates an NDVI map and scales the result to a byte image with a colour palette of choice.  
The example based on *rawS1ChipsBatch* is analogue to the rawChipBatch query. This script retrieves Sentinel-1 chips setting the date range selection exploiting the convenience of POSTing JSON structures to pass on the request parameters.  

### Python CbM package  
We created the **CbM Python library** to provide an easy and organized way to run a variety of different tasks for CbM using [Python programming language](https://www.python.org/).  
In the [Overview page](cbm_overview.md) we introduce the functions that part of the CbM package and we describe its sub-package *ipycbm*, focussed on interactive graphical configuration panels and data visualization tools for [Jupyter Notebooks](https://jupyter.org/).  

In the [Installation page](cbm_install.md) and in the [Setup page](cbm_config.md), we document how to install the package and its dependencies, and how to configure it, while in the [DIAS catalogue page](cbm_card.md) we describe how we implemented a metadata transfer step, which makes metadata available in a single, consistent, database table *dias_catalogue* across the various DIAS instances in order to minimize portability issues. This page is still **under development**.  

In the [Extraction of statistics page](cbm_ext.md) we explain how to configure the connection parameters for the database and the S3 storage and then how to use the *cbm.extract.s2* command to extract statistics in a given time range. We show how to use *ipycbm.extract()* to activate a graphical interface to run the extraction.  

In the [Feature Of Interest (FOI) assessment page](cbm_foi.md) we document how to verify that the declared parcels correspond to homogeneous areas on the ground. In JRC CbM a FOI is the area that represents an homogeneous surface, which means that in FOI polygons there should be only one type of land use on the same type of land cover, and consequently that it is observable by the Sentinel as a meaningful individual entity (i.e. the signal of the pixels that are part of the FOI is similar). To verify that this condition is met, you can use the result of an image classification algorithm and verify that each unit does not contains clusters of heterogeneous pixels. We illustrate two methods provided by the CbM Python package: one based on area calculation (version 1) and one based on cluster size calculation (version 2). We show how to use this tool with a graphical user interface through the *ipycbm.foi()* command.  

In the [Get module page](cbm_get.md), we present the code to use GET to retrieve a set of information. With *cbm.get.time_series.by_pid* you can get the signal time series of a band for a given parcel. With *cbm.get.chip_images.by_pid* you can download the chip image that corresponds to a given parcel. With *cbm.get.background.by_location* and *cbm.get.background.by_pid* you can download a background image (orthophoto) by selected location or parcel id. You can also learn how to use *ipycbm.get()* function to active an interactive Jupyter Notebook widget to get data from different sources, with variety of different methods (coordinates, parcels ids, map marker, polygon).  

### Applications  
In this section we show some complex workflows that implement use cases. Here the frontend tools for analysts are used to generate typical outputs or carry out necessary tasks for the CbM process.  

#### Calendar view  
In the [Calendar view page](uc_calendar.md), you learn how to use the *run_calendar_view.py* script, based on the *calendar_view* Python package, to download, process and display Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 data products for specific parcels. The graphical outputs has been designed and optimized to provide an immediate and intuitive access to both temporal and spatial dimensions of Sentinel-derived data, including time series of image statistics (per parcel) and structured sequences of Sentinel chips.

#### FOI assessment  
The [FOI assessment page](uc_foi.md) describes the concept of Feature of Interest in the context of the JRC CbM and its characteristics. It describes the tests that can be run to verify that a FOI (area of declared parcel) corresponds to an homogeneous area and that it does not contain non-agriculture features.

#### Machine learning  
In the [Machine learning (ML) page](uc_calendar.md) we discuss the use of ML TO check the agricultural parcels information given in the farmers' declarations by generating relevant markers that confirm compliance with the scheme under which the declaration is made. ML can exploit the information provided by the continuous, territory-wide Copernicus Sentinel. We show examples that are complementary to classification, applying machine learning to the parcel averages. The documentation explains hot to prepare the data set, running and testing ML and checking results.  

## Goals
The main functions of the JRC CbM frontend for data analysis are:  
* to integrate backend results into the Paying Agency (PA) workflow  
* to support analytics and development of methods  
* to design and apply marker analysis for decision support  
* to provide access to relevant ancillary reference data  

While the CbM frontend can potentially access backend data directly, all the examples provided make use of the RESTful API set up as intermediate layer between users and data. The examples are based on Jupyter Notebooks and Python.  

Some mature frontend functionality of generic interest to many users may be integrated as backend logic, once they are created and tested.  

## Expertise required
Analysts in Member States/Paying Agencies that work on the CbM using the frontend tools provided by JRC must have the following expertise:
* strong skills in Python coding  
* working knowledge of geospatial data processing  
* working knowledge of remote sensing  
* working knowledge of Sentinel data specifications, processing toolkits, and use case requirements in agriculture  
* working knowledge of server interfaces for data access and analytics (Jupyter Hub, RESTful)
